Abstract
Lack of user acceptance has long been a major roadblock to the success of information systems
efforts. A new theoretical model is introduced to address (1) why end-users accept or reject
information systems and (2) how user acceptance is affected by the design features of the system. The
proposed model, termed the "technology acceptance model" (TAM), specifies the causal
interrelationships between system design features, perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use,
attitude toward using and actual usage behavior. TAM was derived by integrating previous research
from three distinct traditions: Management Information Systems (MIS) attitude research, MIS
laboratory research and Human-computer Interaction (HCI) research. Pertinent issues from the
psychology of attitudes were taken into account in order to place TAM on a solid theoretical
foundation. Valid, reliable measures were used to operationalize the model's variables. A field
experiment of 112 users and 2 end-user systems was conducted to test the hypothesized causal
structure of TAM. The proposed model accounted for 36% of the variance in usage behavior.
Perceived usefulness was 50% more influential than ease of use in determining usage. Implications
for future research and practice are discussed.

1. INTRODUCTION
Corporations are investing in management information technology hand over fist. At the same
time, many companies are beginning to question whether the technology really contributes to
organizational performance. Industry observers specifically mention the problem of underutilization,
pointing out that a significant fraction of installed office systems, personal computers and terminals
gather dust. In general, the goal of an organizationally-based information system is to improve
performance on the job. Unfortunately, performance impacts are lost whenever people decide not to
use the system. User acceptance is often the pivotal factor determining the success or failure of an
information system project.
The present research introduces and empirically tests a new behavioral model of user acceptance,
referred to as the "technology acceptance model" (TAM). TAM is designed to address two key
research questions:
(1) Why do users accept or reject information technology?
(2) What is the impact of a system's design features on user acceptance?

2. RATIONALE FOR TECHNOLOGY ACCEPTANCE MODEL (TAM)
TAM was derived by integrating, within a single model, key variables and relationships that
have been studied within three distinct paradigms: (1) MIS attitude research, (2) MIS laboratory
research and (3) Human-computer Interaction (HCI) laboratory research. These three paradigms
offer complementary perspectives which, when brought together, provide a more complete picture of
the interplay between objective system features, user beliefs and attitudes, and usage behavior.

The Impact of Perceived Usefulness on Attitudes and Usage
The present research defines perceived usefulness as "the degree to which an individual believes
that using a particular system would enhance his or her job performance." The importance of
expected performance impacts for user acceptance was suggested in a series of studies. Nine previous
empirical studies have found constructs conceptually similar to perceived usefulness significantly
linked to either attitudes or usage.

The Impact of Perceived Ease of Use on Attitudes and Usage
Perceived ease of use is defined as "the degree to which an individual believes that using a
particular system would be free of physical and mental effort." Previous research is consistent with
the hypothesis that perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use are distinct constructs and that
ease of use is significantly linked to attitudes and usage.

The Impact of Perceived Ease of Use on Perceived Usefulness
Perceived ease of use is hypothesized to have a significant direct effect on perceived usefulness.
If two systems perform the identical set of functions, a user should find the one that is easier to use
more useful. If a system is easier to use, less of the user's cognitive capacity should be required to
operate the system, allowing the user to be more attentive to the task.

4. DISCUSSION
The TAM motivational variables: attitude toward using, perceived usefulness and perceived ease
of use, taken together, fully mediate between system design features and usage. That is, the
characteristics of the system appear to influence behavior entirely through these motivational
variables and have no additional direct effect on use.
The powerful effect of usefulness on actual use, both directly and indirectly through attitude, is
perhaps the most striking finding. Perceived usefulness exerts more than twice as much direct
influence on use than does attitude toward using. In addition, usefulness exerts more than four times
as much direct influence on attitude as does ease of use.
Compared to usefulness, perceived ease of use has a fairly small direct effect on attitude,
primarily influencing attitude indirectly via its relatively strong effect on usefulness. The effect of
ease of use on usage operates almost entirely through its effect on usefulness.
TAM represents an evolutionary step in the development of a valid theory of user acceptance,
and provides a foundation for further research that builds upon and extends TAM as necessary to
account for a broader range of phenomena.